Academia was always a real shame, I thought. But
gosh, I'm trying to think of what the people, what
his nickname was in the class. Well, he was in
his own stratus.
As you look back, who were some of the most
important teachers and the most important
courses in forming What you became as a
veterinarian. The course in pathology, of
course, was not surprisingly with Hilton Smith.
Hilton Smith was a, he just blew me away. And of
course, Dr. John was important while I was a
student. But I'd say that Dr. John's, my view of him
really developed even further when he was my
department head as an employee.
But Dr. Smith was such
a broadly knowledgeable individual. And so
he was
I guess the most influential single person. Al
Price was still, I have to think of Al Price as
having a big influence on me because he just, you
know, I think of him as the guy that if you think
about one of these spirited horses, not that I was
that spirited, but a horse that's kind of trying
his reins all the time. And then somebody comes
along with an air of authority and jerks on those
reins just one time, you know, and gets his
attention. Well, Al Price jerked on the reins for
me. All right. Did Dr. Smith plant a pathology seed
in your heart and mind? Yeah. To be that
knowledgeable of disease, he's the one who
introduced me to, disease is a subject matter. And
that's when I began, that was the beginning then of
my deteriorating vision of large animals.
Because I had a new
love, I guess. Did you talk this over with anybody?
This change in, this change of feeling? It
happened. over, I wouldn't say that I discussed
the pros and cons of it. I talked with Dr. Smith from
time to time. And he presented, I was one of the
people that persuaded him to teach an elective
course, which he'd never done. That was the only
time he ever taught an elective course in just
large animal pathology.
And I got enough of my classmates to take it so it
could be offered.
But just interacting with him on kind of learning
how he ticked, just what made him go. by talking
with him in class and so on. His labs were just a
total fascination to me, the way he would handle
students. He was a very mild-mannered person, and
he was embarrassed when he embarrassed a student,
but he would still do it. Now, what year was that
class? Sophomore, second year. Second year. was
there any uh during the first or second year were
there any supposed roadblocks where if somebody
was going to flunk out that it normally happened at
this point or drop out it normally happened well
the the uh gross anatomy course with gibbs always
caught some and that was what year second that was a
spring of the first year of the first year okay um
And usually there'd be one or two in biochemistry.
And you never had any thought about driving out of
vet school and going to some other profession? Not
seriously. I did think about it, though, because I
had a couple of my really good friends that did
that. My best friend, who I thought regarded as my
best friend, was a man by the name of Giles Shannon,
who whose father had always wanted him to be a
physician, and yet he wanted to be a veterinarian.
And his dad died shortly after we got into vet
school, or shortly after we started vet school,
and he decided that he wouldn't change at that
point. So you thought about it briefly? And I
thought about it at that time and decided, no, if I
had, you know...
I'm not sure what I would do now. I think as I
reflected on it subsequently in latter years, it
would have been a lot easier to do the things that I
have done professionally if I had gone to medical
school. If you had a serious item to discuss when
you were in vet school, was there anybody you went
to for advice and counsel?
well
no one there was not a system set up for us now we had a
we had a new physiology teacher by the name of Ed
McMurray he had just come he came back and we were
the first class he taught and he was a an individual
that people just kind of migrated to and of course
you know this was a real gift for him and he he began
to do that and that was really his life calling I
think to to be a counselor and but he was not putting
himself forth that way for us and
We had, I had a classmate, one of my older
classmates was really the father figure for our
class, for the younger ones, Bill Kirksey is his
name. K-I-R-K-S-E-Y.
Bill is retired now, but he had a career in practice
in Fort Worth. So y'all would go to him for... His
wife, Clara, was the first librarian in the vet
school, and she actually had that job as a student
position,
kind of a student-level position at the
beginning, but she was the first librarian for the
vet school. And when that year ends, you have done
well and you're pleased, is that right? Mm-hmm.
And what did you do that summer? Back to the oil
field. Back to the oil field. Then you come back as a
sophomore.
Had much changed? Was it you felt good that you were
on the right track? Yeah, I was totally caught up in
it. what I was studying and everything. I mean, I
was preparing, you know, very satisfied with my
career choice. And Dean Price was not yet, he was
not yet, Al Price was not yet the dean. No, that
happened after I graduated in the, see, I went on
the faculty to the big enticement for, really was
that I would be able to work under Al Price. And that
lasted for two months. And then he became dean. And
you're beginning to, are you beginning to think
about pathology as a sophomore? Well, that
happened in the, I would say that was in the, toward
the end of that second year. that I began to think,
well, you know, this wouldn't be a bad thing to do.
Were there any special courses or teachers you had
that second year? Well, Hilton Smith. Hilton
Smith. In the spring, we had Dick Turk. In the fall,
we had Rural Bells. Dick Turk was on sabbatical.
R.D. Turk? Yeah. What was his nickname? Did you all
have a nickname for him? Hmm. No, there have been
some, but I don't, we didn't, we were so pleased to
have him. He was something else, you know. Now,
I gather. P.W. Burns, we had, of course, Pappy
Burns was our physiology teacher. Now, Ed
McMurray came in then in the spring and started
teaching. He taught the physiology in the spring,
and then that freed Dr. Burns up to teach
toxicology, which was then a third year course.
And so we only had him for one semester. Was there
any encouragement for you all to go home in the
summer and do something specifically related to
veterinary medicine?
No, it wasn't. It was after your third year. There
was
quite a lot of emphasis, I guess, placed on that.
Yeah, I went to work in Wichita Falls at the big
practice. It was one of the plums, and I was very
fortunate to... And it was a mixed practice? Mixed
practice, uh-huh. And you say big. How many
veterinarians? Two veterinarians, but they...
two owners, Barrington and Dewey. But they
typically would work one or two others. And then
after my time there and later, well, by the 60s, I
think that was a four or five-man practice. Now, by
and large, in that era, veterinarians were single
practice operations generally? Yeah. That was
the most common mode, I'd say. And if more than one,
it would be two. You rarely saw a three or four
person practice. And that was the case in Houston
as well. When you saw multiple. people practice,
it would be two people. How soon did you students
begin to get pretty sure in the large or small
animal practice goal?
There were a few students who came in from, like the
Houston folk, all but one of them, there was one of
them that was equine and the others were They came
wanting to be, their model was a small animal
practitioner and that's what they wanted to be.
But except for that group and maybe there were a
couple from
Fort Worth who came out of a small animal practice
background and wanted it. But other than that, I'd
say most of us were kind of mixed orientation and
keeping your options open. That was a common term.
Were there many who were dreaming of going into
industrial research or anything? Uh-uh. And were
there any that during those four years of vet
school, were there any of y'all that were dreaming
of being an academic?
Mm-mm. I wasn't at all. See, mine all happened with
Armistead. I went in to speak with Armistead
because I knew that he had, not very many years
before that, he had done a PhD. And so I
thought he would be a likely resource person. I'd
seen this flyer from Purdue about, graduate
assistantships for veterinarians who wanted to
do a graduate study and and it was the way it was
written it was obvious that they were basically
working on livestock diseases and now but this was
in my senior year that I saw that and got it twicked
my curiosity a little bit and so I went to see farmer
said, just to talk to him about that. What would you
do if I were to go to that and do that and get another
degree, what would I do then? And
so that's... What did he say? What was his answer?
Well, he said that he told me about some of the
opportunities that there would be to work in the
field of research like with pharmaceutical firms
or go to work for the government or go into
academia. And that was what year? That was my
fourth year. And then he kind of did a big however.
He just happened to have this opening that he had
developed and he was very interested in and he had
set this up because there was as a way to to allow
young veterinarians to
learn about academic veterinary medicine and He
thought I would be a good candidate for that. Now,
did he invite you, or did you go to see him? Well, I
went to see him about the Purdue thing. I asked for
an appointment and saw him. But then he turned the
tables. Academically, you were second in your
class? No, I was fourth, I think. Okay. Now, and
with that, with these grades being posted, by and
large, did... Did people have a kind of a ranking
for each class? Yeah, well, I don't know how many of
my classmates would have known where I was.
Everyone knew that Wallace Klebb was the top.
Okay. And Bill Kirksey was probably the second.
Did they know that there were also a few that were
down right at the bottom? Yeah. And were there some
who were in jeopardy almost every semester? Yeah.
Is that? Yeah. Just skim by. But those guys didn't
care for the most part. And did y'all have a, as you
went through, did the feeling of class pride and
pulling together, did that Oh yeah, that was very
strong in our class. How did you all help each
other? Give some examples of where the class
helped each other, either academically or when
there was a personal crisis or whatever.
Well, whenever one of the, we would work with the
students who were would be having problems and
would get into trouble and would be flunking a
course, for example. You all would help them with
the homework and study in the lab? We were, this was
pretty common with, now Cleb didn't do very much of
that.
It wasn't that he wasn't willing to, but he was a
very, he was a stoic individual. And
he just wasn't able to help. He tried a number of
times, but it didn't take, because he didn't know
what to tell people or what to say to them. And we had
some others of us that were kind of part-time
tutors, I guess, for students. Do you remember any
crises where somebody had a tragedy or an illness
or an injury that somebody helped with?
What about somebody that ended up short of money?
Did anybody help? Did you lend it to anybody? Well,
that was just part of life at the time.
Yeah, there were some. helping out along that line
that went on. And among the most feared courses in
the four years were what? Supposedly the
toughest, and you were glad to get them done. Well,
that gross anatomy course was one. A
lot of students worried about the embryology
course that Al Price taught, because it was very
challenging. And then the toxicology course that
Dr. Burns taught was probably, if you were to poll
my classmates, that's probably the course that
would be listed, be between that and the gross
anatomy course. It was a surgery course that was
pretty intimidating, but it was so interesting
that nobody shied away from it. Looking back on all
four years, what do you wish there had been more of
and perhaps less of? If you've only got four years
to do it, was there any modification in hindsight?
Well
there were from at the time that I finished I had a
feeling that the public health courses were had
been a pretty much a waste of time and that there I
would have wished to have been able to substitute
in some
disease courses on the disease of the animal more
in depth on that but you know that very much
reflects the bias that I had in those courses at
least one of those courses was very important that
in that time that the public health course because
a large I say a large I mean there were several of my
classmates that at one time or another worked in
the brucellosis eradication program And
there are several of them that have made
substantial contributions to the USDA program.
Is there anything you didn't do enough of?
Yeah. Given that there were only four years and it
had to be
again at the time that I finished I guess my feeling
was it would have been I really wish there had been
more opportunity to have hands on experience with
cases we didn't have we weren't put in a position of
responsibility very well we would be like with in
small animal for example we'd be we were exposed to
the cases and we did and we held animals and things
like that but we we there was only one of the small
animal clinicians I thought that was really very
good at trying to draw out the thoughts of the
students on pieces and not to the extent I mean our
people now I just marvel of course you know in the I
worked not as a clinician, but there among the
clinicians in the position that I had after I was
department head, and as I had before I was
department head, being kind of the hospital
pathologist, if you will. And I just marvel at
the... job that those people do in involving the
students. They really do a good job now.
Looking at those four years, what did A&M do best
and what did it do worst in veterinary medicine
then?
Or at least best, maybe I can phrase that in a
positive way.
best was would have been the equine work working
with horses equine medicine and equine surgery
and also livestock medicine at that time with
cattle particularly we did much more of that then
it was a much larger segment of of the hospital
operation than it is now. And that's not to say
anything against the present hospital. It's just
society now in a way. We have so many more private
practitioners now. There were virtually none in
this community when I was in vet school.
I think
our education was very, very tailored.
It was very much tailored to prepare us for a
practice career. We had... There was nothing done
to make us aware of non-practice opportunities.
And I think it's really... amazing that as many of
my my class and the class of classes around me that
wound up doing things other than practices
probably kind of remarkable but it would have been
uh
much better if we could have had some exposure to
our to the other well research for example but
there were there wasn't There were very few
research programs that were funded. There was
very little money, research money, in the vet
school at the time I was in vet school. As far as you
were aware, you and your friends, your classmates
at that time, how did A&M's veterinary program
compare nationally? Where did you all think it
ranked?
Well, we felt it was one of the good ones. We didn't
know. This
was not a point of very much concern to us. That's
what I was going to say. I'll bet there wasn't much
discussion then of that. No, it
just wasn't an item to think about or worry about.
Did anybody ever discuss, any of you veterinary
students, ever discuss women attending this
program and or black students? Never talked about
the absence of either one. That's what I would have
guessed. And we didn't, I guess we, our view of
veterinary medicine was pretty chauvinistic, I
guess. But it wasn't a matter of seeing it as
something that males were deserving of. It was
just the
occupation was just kind of a hazardous sort of a
thing. It's like women playing football. Of
course, now it has evolved just so much in the other
direction. Now, I've just about run out of
questions. Are there some important topics we
haven't touched? Well, nothing that occurs to me.
I wasn't particularly, well, let's
see. As you look back, were there any funny, goofy,
humorous events you can recall during those four
years?
Let students ever play a joke on one of the faculty?
Other than those you mentioned a while ago on
Gibbs?
Oh, well, when we moved, I worked for Physiology
Department. Dr. Burns had set up, during that era,
had set up two or three student positions for
students that were in their third year in vet
school after they'd finished their second year
when they had physiology. Well, then they were
student assistants. I can't remember if it was two
or four students that he did. two or four
positions. But anyway, he had some positions. And
I was able to get one of those. And there
must have been four of us involved. But we were
involved then in moving physiology from the main
campus out to the buildings across the tracks.
One of the guys, he was not in one of those
positions, but a guy by the name of Helms. He was a
classmate of mine who was working, I guess,
on hourly wages just to help move stuff out. And Dr.
Burns had a supply. He had containers of
unadulterated absolute alcohol that he was very
protective of, as he should have been. And
he left the container open, well, the cabinet
unlocked one day. And old Helms got into that and
got some out of the pharmacy. He found some of the
tincture of cherry syrup or something like that
for flavoring. He just had a party out there. Now
that wasn't a prank on Dr. Burns, but boy, it really
infuriated him, because he fell down the stairs.
He was so inebriated that he fell down the stairs.
But earlier, the thing that was a prank that turned
out